
                             [Illustration]

                                A Sketch

                            =. . of how . .=

                          “The Diamond Anthem”

                      =was sung around the world=
                  =through the Colonies of the Empire=
                        =on the 20th June, 1897=

               THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ACCESSION DAY
                     OF HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA

               Being an extract from the Annual Report of
          The Supreme Grand President of the Sons of England,
           given at St. Catharines, Canada, 8th March, 1898.


                                TORONTO
                      THE ROBINSON-ARBUTHNOT PRESS
                                  1898




               TIME TABLE FOR SERVICES AROUND THE WORLD.

    An interval will be arranged in the regular afternoon service to
    allow of the National Anthem being commenced at 4 p.m., or in
    Australia and Canada at the exact Standard Time stated; this
    being the equivalent of the moment the sun is passing the place
    at 4 p.m. Sun Time.

        ─────────────────────────┬────────────┬──────────────────
         DAY COMMENCES AT LONG.  │  Standard  │Time at the Heart
                  180.           │   Time.    │      of the
                                 │            │  Empire—Windsor
                                 │            │      Castle
        ─────────────────────────┼────────────┼──────────────────
                                 │    P.M.    │       A.M.
                                 │   20th.    │      20th.
        FIJI ISLANDS             │    4.00    │       4.05
                                 │            │
        NEW ZEALAND:             │            │
            Napier               │    4.00    │       4.20
            Auckland             │    4.00    │       4.21
                                 │            │
        AUSTRALIA:               │            │
            Sydney               │    3.55    │       5.55
            Hobart               │    4.11    │       6.11
            Melbourne            │    4.20    │       6.20
            Adelaide             │    3.46    │       6.46
            Perth                │    4.16    │       8.16
                                 │            │
        MAURITIUS:               │            │       P.M.
            St. Louis            │    4.00    │      12.10
                                 │            │
        SOUTH AFRICA:            │            │
            Durban (Port Natal)  │     "      │       1.56
            Addington            │    ....    │       1.57
            East London          │     "      │       2.08
            King William’s Town  │     "      │       2.11
            Graham’s Town        │     "      │       2.14
            Port Elizabeth       │     "      │       2.18
            Uitenage             │     "      │       2.19
            Cape Town            │     "      │       2.46
                                 │            │
        WEST AFRICA:             │            │
            St. Helena           │     "      │       4.23
            Sierra Leone         │     "      │       4.53
            Ascension            │     "      │       4.58
                                 │            │
        MID-ATLANTIC:            │            │
            British Ships at sea │    ....    │       ....
                                 │            │
        NEWFOUNDLAND:            │            │
            St. John             │     "      │       7.31
                                 │            │
        CANADA:                  │            │
          CAPE BRETON—           │            │
            Sydney               │    4.01    │       8.01
          PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND—  │            │
            Charlottetown        │    4.12    │       8.12
          NOVA SCOTIA—           │            │
            New Glasgow          │    4.10    │       8.10
            Truro                │    4.13    │       8.13
            Halifax              │    4.14    │       8.14
            Springhill           │    4.17    │       8.17
            Windsor              │    4.17    │       8.17
            Digby                │    4.23    │       8.23
            Yarmouth             │    4.24    │       8.24
          NEW BRUNSWICK—         │            │
            Moncton              │    3.20    │       8.20
            St. John             │    3.24    │       8.24
            Fredericton          │    3.27    │       8.27
            Stanley              │    ....    │       ....
            Woodstock            │    3.30    │       8.30
          QUEBEC—                │            │
            Sherbrooke           │    3.48    │       8.48
            Lennoxville          │    3.48    │       8.48
            Richmond             │    3.49    │       8.49
            Quebec               │    3.50    │       8.50
            Montreal             │    3.54    │       8.54
          ONTARIO—               │            │
            Cornwall             │    3.59    │       8.59
            Ottawa               │    4.03    │       9.03
            Brockville           │    4.03    │       9.03
            Carleton Place       │    4.04    │       9.04
            Smith’s Falls        │    4.04    │       9.04
            Almonte              │    4.05    │       9.05
            Arnprior             │    4.05    │       9.05
            Gananoque            │    4.06    │       9.06
            Kingston             │    4.07    │       9.07
            Renfrew              │    4.07    │       9.07
            Pembroke             │    4.08    │       9.08
            Deseronto            │    4.09    │       9.09
            Belleville           │    4.10    │       9.10
            Peterborough         │    4.13    │       9.13
            Port Hope            │    4.13    │       9.13
            Bowmanville          │    4.14    │       9.14
            Burke’s Falls        │    4.15    │       9.15
            Lindsay              │    4.15    │       9.15
            Oshawa               │    4.15    │       9.15
            Whitby               │    4.16    │       9.16
            Huntsville           │    4.17    │       9.17
            Bracebridge          │    4.17    │       9.17
            Orillia              │    4.18    │       9.18
            Toronto              │    4.18    │       9.18
            St. Catharines       │    4.18    │       9.18
            Barrie and Allandale │    4.19    │       9.19
            Rosseau              │    4.19    │       9.19
            Grimsby              │    4.19    │       9.19
            Hamilton             │    4.20    │       9.20
            Orangeville          │    4.20    │       9.20
            Collingwood          │    4.21    │       9.21
            Guelph               │    4.21    │       9.21
            Brantford            │    4.21    │       9.21
            Simcoe               │    4.21    │       9.21
            Paris                │    4.22    │       9.22
            Woodstock            │    4.23    │       9.23
            Sudbury              │    4.24    │       9.24
            Aylmer               │    4.24    │       9.24
            Stratford            │    4.24    │       9.24
            Owen Sound           │    4.24    │       9.24
            St. Thomas           │    4.25    │       9.25
            London               │    4.26    │       9.26
            Goderich             │    4.27    │       9.27
            Petrolea             │    4.28    │       9.28
            Chatham              │    4.29    │       9.29
            Sarnia               │    4.30    │       9.30
            Windsor              │    4.32    │       9.32
            Port Arthur          │    3.57    │       9.57
            Fort William         │    3.57    │       9.57
            Rat Portage          │    4.18    │      10.18
          MANITOBA AND NORTHWEST │            │
              TERRITORIES—       │            │
            Winnipeg             │    4.28    │      10.28
            Carman               │    4.32    │      10.32
            Brandon              │    3.40    │      10.40
            Virden               │    3.43    │      10.43
            Russell              │    3.45    │      10.45
            Moosomin             │    3.46    │      10.46
            Regina               │    3.58    │      10.58
            Moose Jaw            │    4.02    │      11.02
            Medicine Hat         │    4.22    │      11.22
            Calgary              │    4.26    │      11.36
            Banff                │    4.49    │      11.49
          BRITISH COLUMBIA—      │            │
            Donald               │    3.49    │      11.49
            Revelstoke           │    3.53    │      11.53
            Vernon               │    3.57    │      11.57
                                 │            │      A.M.,
                                 │            │      21st.
            New Westminster      │    4.12    │      12.12
            Vancouver            │    4.12    │      12.12
            Victoria             │    4.13    │      12.13
                                 │            │
        PACIFIC OCEAN:           │            │
            British Ships at sea │    ....    │       ....
                                 │            │
        ─────────────────────────┴────────────┴──────────────────




                         =THE SONS OF ENGLAND=
                   =Diamond Jubilee Services Around=
                              =the World,=
                       =Sunday, 20th June, 1897.=
 Being an extract from the Annual Report of the Supreme Grand President
            of the Sons of England, given at St. Catharines,
                        Canada, 8th March, 1898.


18. It has been my happy lot to be the President of the Sons of England
during the record year of Her Majesty’s reign, an epoch year in the
history of our British Empire, and it has given me the intensest
pleasure to devote whatever power lay within me toward sustaining the
loyal sentiments which have been evoked in so remarkable a degree.

The Foreign nations were amazed at the wondrous attachment with which
the subjects of Queen Victoria, at home and all over the world, joined
in rejoicing over her welfare, and in attesting their loyalty to her
person and her Crown, but the Jubilee home-coming was a revelation also
to the people of the Home Land, who found thus vividly brought before
their eyes the marvellous area over which our fathers and we who had
emigrated from her shores, have spread her power, and at last have
seemed to “understand” how real is the blood union existing between the
Sons who have gone out into the world, and the Brothers who have
remained at home.

Summoned by the magic call of the Empress Queen, “Greater Britain” has
suddenly stepped forward on the field as an actual and integral part of
her Realm and Empire.

In accordance with the instructions of the Supreme Grand Lodge at
Brantford, an address, most beautifully and appropriately illuminated,
was forwarded to Her Majesty conveying our devotion, and stating the
belief “that the personality of the Crown is the strongest and most
stable bond of union between the millions of people who spread in a
world-embracing circle around the old Home-Kingdom, delight in proving
faithful allegiance, and doing loyal service.”

Our Society also joined heartily with all other societies in testifying
together with them our united affection and loyalty upon the 22nd of
June, the officially appointed Jubilee day.

It seemed to me, however, that the Sons of England owed it to their
Queen, and earnestly desired to do something more, and I therefore
organized the “_Jubilee Service of a continuous anthem around the
world_,” to take place on Sunday, the 20th of June, the actual
anniversary day of Her Majesty’s accession.

The idea when first mooted met with immediate acceptance as a happy
conception, but many doubts were expressed as to the possibility of its
being actually accomplished, for it seemed to the faint-hearted almost
an impossibility to arrange for a connecting line of services, which
should take place in succession around the whole circle of the earth for
the space of twenty-four hours. Yet I have much pleasure in informing
Supreme Grand Lodge that the “_continuous Anthem and Prayer offered_,”
as stated in the Official Circular issued by me on the 8th April, “_as
the loyal and affectionate tribute of the Sons of England to their
Gracious Queen upon the Diamond Jubilee of her accession to the
Throne_,” has been carried out in actual fact, and in completest detail.

It is not possible within the limits of this report to give more than a
sketch, but some record is due of a “service” which was so universally
and ardently adopted, which is absolutely unique in history, and which,
moreover, is one capable of being carried out only by our nation, upon
whose Sovereign’s dominions the sun never sets.

The intention was that commencing from the hour of 4.05 in the morning
at Windsor Castle on the 20th of June, the Sons in the Colonies should
join in a world-wide carol, and encircle their Queen with the continuous
singing of the National Anthem all through the hours of that great day
of her life, and on through the night until daylight the next morning.

On the opposite side of the world from the Heart of the Empire at
Windsor Castle are the _Fiji Islands_, the colony situate nearest to
longitude 180, where it is 4 o’clock in the afternoon at the same moment
at which it is 4 o’clock in the morning of the same day in England at
Greenwich.

The problem was therefore to have the National Anthem commenced in Fiji
at the beginning of Her Majesty’s day, and sung thereafter precisely at
4 p.m., as the sun arrived at that moment in succession over each place
in the Colonies, and passed onwards around the world.

A form of service was devised suitable for any Sunday afternoon service,
to commence at 3.30, in which the National Anthem should be sung at the
appointed moment of 4 o’clock.

Full descriptive circulars, forms of service, and a time-table of
longitudes, prepared by the Meteorological Department of Canada, and
showing the meridian or sun time at each place, were sent in multitude
to friends and correspondents in every Colony and Dependency owning
allegiance to the Union Jack.

With the co-operation of the Right Rev. The Bishop of Toronto, who is a
member of our Order, communications were opened up with all the Colonial
bishops and clergy, and their services were enlisted. Patriotic
societies and the secretaries of the Royal Colonial Institute were asked
by me to assist. Letters were sent to the captains of every British
passenger ship which would be at sea on the 20th of June, asking them to
sing the Anthem, fire a gun, and note the position of their ship at 4
p.m. on that day.

Our own brethren in Newfoundland and Canada and patriots in the United
States took the service up with energy and enthusiasm. The Sons of
England in South Africa answered with alacrity, Australia and New
Zealand joined in heartily, and thus, by prompt and efficient action,
the organization was completed and ready for the eventful day. Copies of
the time-table were sent to Her Majesty, by reference to which it could
be seen at any hour how far the Anthem had proceeded on its way and in
what colony it was at any moment being sung.

In acknowledging receipt the Colonial Secretary, The Right Hon. Joseph
Chamberlain, says to His Excellency Lord Aberdeen: “I have the honour to
acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch of the 24th April with its
enclosures on the subject of the Continuous Service around the World
which is being arranged by the Sons of England in commemoration of the
60th Anniversary of the Queen’s Accession to the Throne. I have to
inform you that, in accordance with your request, the matter has been
brought before the notice of the Queen, and that Her Majesty was
graciously pleased to express her sincere appreciation of the loyal
feelings that have prompted this interesting method of Commemoration.”

The 20th of June came and the Anthem passed around the world.

Reports and letters kept coming in month after month in reply to my
request and giving an account of the proceedings held in each place. A
few extracts only can be give here as samples of many hundreds of
similar character which have been received from the continuous line now
recorded around the world.

The service commenced on Sunday afternoon 20th June in Levuka, Fiji
Islands. Dr. Garner Jones, headmaster of the Levuka Public Schools,
writes: “Owing to geographical position—viz., 178.51 E. long.—the
inhabitants of Levuka, Fiji Islands, enjoyed the unique honor of
initiating “The Wave of Song” that hailed the Jubilee (Diamond) of Her
Majesty’s Ascension, a wave which travelled from colony to colony in
order of longitude, encircling the entire globe.”

“The service was an open air one, being held in the Government school
grounds, Rev. W. Floyd, vicar of the Episcopal English Church
officiating. The attendance was large and included representatives of
various races who claim Her Majesty as their Sovereign. English, Scotch,
Irish, Australian and New Zealand Colonials, Chinese, Germans, Swedes,
among whom the characteristic bushy hair of the Fijian and other South
Sea Islanders was prominent, there found themselves shoulder to shoulder
in the antipodes of the British Empire earnestly rolling forth our grand
old National Anthem, thus giving the keynote of thanksgiving to the
entire world. The Masons and Odd Fellows appeared in regalia and the
Levuka brass band was in attendance. Surrounding the main body of the
assembly were the Levuka school boys, drawn up with their wooden rifles
at the “Order.”

“Punctually at five minutes to 4 o’clock the procession of choristers
left their temporary vestry and slowly approached their stand. At 4
o’clock precisely, meridian time, the British Ensign was hoisted, which
was the pre-arranged signal, the band immediately struck up and every
throat commenced ‘God Save the Queen’ while the public school guard
stood at the ‘Present.’

“Undoubtedly the occasion was unique, and Levuka never forgot for a
moment that her geographical position was unique also, in so far as she
enjoyed the proud distinction of being allowed to start the wave of song
which in its course would pass over in rotation all the British
possessions on the face of the globe.”

At that same time, and while Her Majesty slept at 4.05 a.m. at Windsor,
the Executive of the Sons of England and Lodge Commercial were in
meeting at Shaftesbury Hall, Toronto. Precisely at 10.55 p.m., on
Saturday 19th, they sang the National Anthem, commenced that same moment
on Sunday afternoon in Levuka, and which for the next 17¼ hours was to
be coming steadily nearer with the sun until it was over Toronto at 4
p.m. on Sunday afternoon, when the Sons of England in Toronto again
joined in the loyal strain as it pushed by them onwards toward the West.

Three minutes after Levuka had commenced, Suva, the Fiji capital, took
up the strain. Mr. Hamilton Hunter says: “I am glad to report that the
Special Jubilee Service was a great success in this Colony. It was not
merely confined to the English Church but was heartily taken up by the
Roman Catholics, Presbyterian and Wesleyan Churches. The National Anthem
was sung on the stroke of four. I have to thank you for having enabled
us to set ‘The Wave of Song’ in motion by your timely warning, and I can
assure you that though our numbers are small and consequently the volume
of sound was less than in larger colonies, yet the loyalty shown in Fiji
to Her Most Gracious Majesty on the 60th anniversary of her reign, could
not have been exceeded in any other part of the Empire.”

Nineteen minutes later, or before the services in the Fijis had closed,
the Anthem was taken up, in Napier, New Zealand. The report says, “The
Jubilee services at the cathedral yesterday will be remembered by the
Napier people for many a long year, and it is questionable whether a
more imposing ecclesiastical spectacle was ever witnessed in New
Zealand. The cathedral was crowded to excess, all the friendly societies
of Napier being present.” The Dean writes: “As Dean of the easternmost
Cathedral in the British Empire, the cathedral upon which the rays of
the rising sun first fall, I have to report that, in accordance with
your wishes, we commenced the great circle of Anthem singing, as
arranged for by the Sons of England, at 4 o’clock on the afternoon of
Sunday last. The service was a very magnificent and enthusiastic one. I
convey my most hearty good wishes to you, and to the members of the
great organization you represent.”

The wave swept across Australia. At Melbourne, Victoria, B. Cowderoy,
Esq., Secretary R.C.I., reports: “Both cathedrals (Anglican and Roman
Catholic) were crushingly full. In the Exhibition building several
thousands, after addresses by leading Wesleyans, took up the National
Anthem at our standard time. In the town hall the Anthem was sung with
fervor at 4 p.m. by 4,000 voices with most impressive effect. I am an
octogenarian, but in this matter I am as young as my eight grandsons,
and thank you, Mr. Cumberland, for your happy suggestion which has given
added interest to all that is being done.” Adelaide, S. Australia: “The
Bishops of the Diocese entered heartily into the scheme. The Governor
and his staff were present. The National Anthem was sung with intense
fervor and most thrilling effect.” So it passed through the other cities
and over the continent of Australia.

Across the Indian Ocean. _Empress of India_ marked the lat. 26.6. n.;
long. 120. 26. e. “Rockets fired and National Anthem sung at 4 p.m. off
Alligator Rock.” It first touched Africa and was hailed by the lodge of
the Sons of England at Durban, Natal, and then, in continuing line
across South Africa, in all the principal cities and Cape Town, the
record was maintained.

On the Atlantic Ocean it was taken up on many British ships at sea,
among whom a few only may be mentioned. R.M.S. _Tantallon Castle_, lat.
7. 17. n.; long. 14. 33. w., off west coast of Africa: “Guns fired and
Anthem sung at 4 p.m. S.S. _Greek_, lat. 18. 10. n.; long. 17. 38. w.:
“Fired rocket and sang National Anthem.” S.S. _Numidian_: “God Save the
Queen sung precisely at 4 p.m.;” ship’s position, lat. 54. 42.; long.
20. 43. w. S.S. _Catalonia_: “At 4 p.m. I had two explosive gun signals
fired on my ship in lat. 50. 12. n.; long. 22. 6. w. It was blowing a
south-west gale with high seas, and it was a great disappointment to me
that we could not hold the service I had intended, but all classes of
passengers were so sea-sick.”

By the equivalent time of 7.31 p.m. at Windsor Castle the Anthem had
crossed the Atlantic, and first touched the shores at St. John’s,
Newfoundland, when it was met by Lodge Dudley, S.O.E., assembled,
together with the Governor-General and all the friendly societies in the
Cathedral. “The service was impressive in the extreme.” From here
westward through Canada I need not dilate how that as the sun crossed
the continent the line through the villages, towns and cities of Canada
was so complete that the singing of the Anthem in one place had not
ceased before it was taken up in the next. As says the report from
Orillia, “as the familiar words were sung with lusty fervor by nearly a
thousand voices, until the volume almost raised the roof, the sun passed
the hour of four. In imagination the congregation could hear the strains
as they rolled up from the east and died away into the west.” At
Toronto, 3,000 people were packed into the Cathedral. After completion
of the prayers there remained four minutes before it was our turn to
take our place in the circle of song. By direction of His Lordship, the
Bishop, the congregation knelt in silent prayer for Her Majesty and the
welfare of the Empire. An immense throng of 6,000 to 7,000 people filled
the grounds and the adjacent streets outside, and a Regimental Band had
been stationed on the Cathedral steps to lead their singing. At the
stroke of the Cathedral bell, which had been arranged to ring at 4.18
p.m., being the real meridian time for 4 p.m. at Toronto, the
congregation rose and joined with those outside in uplifting with heart
and voice their loyal prayer, “_God save our gracious Queen_.” Those
were moments of a life-time while we waited in silence for the coming of
the anthem. Thus actually minute after minute the Anthem strain followed
the hours across this continent to the shores of the Pacific at
Victoria, British Columbia, where an open-air service was held at the
equivalent of 12.13 midnight at Windsor Castle. “Among those present at
Beacon Hill Park were the Lieut.-Governor, the Mayor, the Admiral and
officers of the ships in harbor. At 4 o’clock the bugles rang out, the
royal standard was run up to the masthead, and the National Anthem was
sung with full force by an assemblage of 12,000 people.”

From here, leaving the land, the Anthem wafted its way back to the place
of beginning, being joined as it passed by the S.S. _Aorangi_, in lat.
32. 25. n.; long. 147. 49. w., and by the _Empress of China_, lat. 41.
16. n; long. 152. 30. w., until at length it came to the little island,
which is as far on one side of long. 180, the central degree of
longitude, a Levuka from where it had started is on the other. Here the
West had met the East. I will give the last letter, as it deserves, in
full, from the lighthouse-keeper on the island:—

      “WAILAGILALA LIGHTHOUSE, FIJI,
    “17 South, 179.6, West Long.,
                                              “26th September, 1897.

    “MY DEAR SIR,—As you expressed a wish in your circular to hear
    how the anniversary of the day on which Her Majesty began her
    happy reign was observed in each locality, and also on board
    passenger ships at sea, I hope you will be pleased to hear that
    all your instructions were carried out here, as fully as
    circumstances permitted, my situation here being unique. As this
    is the connecting link between the western and eastern
    hemispheres, it may happen that you will find by overlooking the
    places where the ceremony was observed, that my endeavors were
    successful in commencing or finishing the general celebration of
    the world. Being only 54 minutes west of the meridian, all ships
    passing either way ought to change the name of the day on their
    reckoning while within sight of this island. I obtained the
    correct astronomical time from the captain and officers of the
    steamer that calls here every three months. A doubt being
    expressed about the proper day, and as good action could not be
    performed too often, I observed both the 20th and 21st June in
    the same way. I also had a bonfire lit on both nights, so that
    ships passing either eastward or westward could see that the
    anniversary was being kept to suit either contingency. I would
    have written you earlier but there has been no means of
    communication between this island since the 16th of June last
    until to-day.”    ALFRED FFRENCH,

                                             _Lighthouse-keeper_

Here the circle of the world was complete and the Anthem had come back
to the place of its beginning.

Thus have we Sons of England linked our fellow-colonists hand in hand in
one continuous line around the world, and changed the ideal but historic
“drumbeat” of the “Martial airs of England” into the absolute fact of
the “_Diamond Anthem_” with which we have encircled the earth, and
accompanied the hours throughout the Diamond Jubilee Accession Day of
our beloved Queen.

One of the great records of Her Majesty’s Reign is the marvellous
increase of her Colonial Kingdom; it is largely through her own personal
influence that during those sixty years it has been extended and cared
for. Gladly has this tribute of affection been given by her grateful
Colonists to their Queen by thus joining together in their rejoicings in
a way, “_Hands All Round_,” which was impossible at the beginning of her
reign, but which she has by her broad-minded advance, herself made
practicable, and which therefore has marked a record of her great life
work.

In conclusion I express my thanks to the Staff of the Head Office for
their cheerful aid in the vastly increased correspondence entailed by
the Jubilee Work, to our own District Deputies and officers, and to the
officers and members of other Societies and to the members of the Clergy
for the efficient and enthusiastic arrangements they made for the Sons
of England service in their separate localities. I hope and feel that
our united labours will have been for the strengthening of our
patriotism, the awakening of new energies for Union and the deepening of
British interests throughout our Empire.

Trusting that my actions through the year will have received your
approval,

                                  I have the honour to be,
                                 Yours faithfully and fraternally,
                                             BARLOW CUMBERLAND, S.G.P.

[Illustration: S. O. E. JUBILEE SERVICE AROUND THE WORLD
 —STARTING THE WAVE OF SONG IN LEVUKA, FIJI ISLANDS.]




                            DIAMOND  JUBILEE

                                   OF

                     HER  MAJESTY  QUEEN  VICTORIA

                      Sunday,  June  20th,  1897.

                             [Illustration]

             =ORDER  FOR  THE  SONS  OF  ENGLAND  JUBILEE=
                     =SERVICE  AROUND  THE  WORLD=

1. The members shall meet at their Lodge Rooms, or some other convenient
place, and, clad in their regalia, shall march in procession to the
Church selected.

2. Where there are two or more Lodges in the locality they shall attend
one combined Service, which shall be held in a Church selected by the
Joint Committee.

3. The District Deputy or Senior Past President shall, on arrival at the
Church, deliver the Union Jack to the Minister, to be displayed upon the
pulpit or upon the reading desk.

4. The Service shall commence at 3.30 p.m.

5. The opening hymn shall be the “Old Hundredth,”—“All people that on
earth do dwell.”

6. At 4 p.m. precisely, according to astronomical time, being the time
at which the sun passes over each locality, the congregation shall stand
and sing three verses of the National Anthem, “God Save the Queen,” to
be immediately followed by: (1) The Collect of Thanksgiving for Her
Majesty’s Accession to the Throne; (2) The prayer for the Queen and
Royal Family, as formerly used in the Thanksgiving Service for the 20th
June.

7. The rest of the service to be the usual Sunday afternoon service,
with an interval to permit of the National Anthem being sung as above,
at the proper time. See Time Table herewith.

8. The Collection shall be given, as has been desired by Her Majesty, to
some charitable purpose.

9. The closing hymn shall be: “The Day Thou Gavest, Lord, is Ended.” No.
477, A. & M.

15. The Lodges shall invite the Municipal authorities and Sister
Societies to attend the Service.

11. The District Deputies will be responsible for the fulfilment of
these instructions.

          By order.
                                              BARLOW CUMBERLAND S.G.P.
  TORONTO, 8th April, 1897.




            Unite the Empire; make it stand compact,
              Shoulder to shoulder, let its members feel
            The touch of British brotherhood, and act
              As one Great Nation—strong and true as steel!




                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES


Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected.

Inconsistencies in punctuation have been maintained.

Some illustrations were moved to facilitate page layout.

A cover was created for this eBook.

[The end of _The Diamond Anthem_, by Barlow Cumberland.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Sketch of how "The Diamond Anthem"
was Sung around the World, by Barlow Cumberland

